SPA web security intro - post 1 (#1203)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2022-07-06-spa-web-security.md

---
layout: blog_post
title: "Defend Your SPA from Security Woes"
author: alisa-duncan
by: advocate
communities: [security,javascript]
description: "Learn the basics of web security and how to apply web security foundation to protect your Single Page Applications."
tags: [security, react, vue, angular]
tweets:
- "Protect your SPA and web 🍪  by keeping these web security tips in mind!"
- "Confused about web security? 🤔 Read this post to demystify actionable steps you can take to protect your SPA. ✅"
image: blog/spa-web-security/social.jpg
type: awareness
---

> There's a lot of information floating out there about web security. But when I read through the material, I noticed some information wasn't up to date, or they were written specifically for traditional server-rendered web applications, or they recommended anti-patterns. In a series of posts, I will cover web security concerns that all web devs should be aware of, emphasizing client-side applications, namely Single Page Applications (SPA). Furthermore, I'm not going to get into the nitty-gritty of web security, cryptography, and networking, and instead, focus on the main takeaways and high-level to-do lists. I'll also provide links where you can dive in deeper.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There's a lot of information floating out there about web security. But when I read through the material, I noticed some information wasn't up to date, or it was written specifically for traditional server-rendered web applications, or the author recommended anti-patterns. In a series of posts, I will cover web security concerns that all web devs should be aware of, emphasizing client-side applications, namely Single Page Applications (SPAs). Furthermore, I'm not going to get into the nitty-gritty of web security, cryptography, and networking.  Instead, I'll focus on the main takeaways and high-level to-do lists. I'll also provide links to resources where you can dive in deeper.
```
clarifying.

<!-- Table with all the posts here as each post publishes -->

> So why do we worry about web security anyway? When we have vulnerabilities in our applications, it's an avenue for exploitation. In the wrong hands, exploiting the vulnerabilities can cause risks to your application, data, reputation, and bottom line. In the words of my coworker [Aaron Parecki](https://developer.okta.com/blog/authors/aaron-parecki/), it all boils down to one thing—liability. And we don't want to expose ourselves, our applications, and our companies to liability if we can help it. If you feel threatened, it's a good time to read on and identify how to harden your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So why do we worry about web security anyway? When we have vulnerabilities in our applications, it's an avenue for exploitation. In the wrong hands, exploiting the vulnerabilities can cause risks to your application, data, reputation, and bottom line. In the words of my coworker [Aaron Parecki](https://developer.okta.com/blog/authors/aaron-parecki/), it all boils down to one thing—liability. And we don't want to expose ourselves, our applications, and our companies to liability. If you feel threatened, it's a good time to read on and identify how to harden your application.
```
I think "if we can help it" waters down the oomph of your statement, unless I'm missing the point of qualifying here,,,

We will cover some of these vulnerabilities specifically, but I'll also list general things to keep in mind that feed into the vulnerabilities listed here.

## Leverage your browser and security headers
First, we need to set the stage for part of our vulnerability mitigation strategy by bringing up security headers. Modern browsers (buh-bye Internet Explorer!!) have a lot of security mechanisms already built into them. We have to leverage the built-in security mechanisms and can enhance them with additional security headers. Security headers are HTTP response headers that provide instructions on how the browser should behave and are defined on your web server.

There are quite a few security headers that we can apply. Something to note, SPAs are unique, so not all security headers apply in the same way you would for a traditional server-rendered web application. I'll call out the security headers that you'll want to use when we discuss how to mitigate a specific vulnerability. 

### Dive deeper into security headers

> Here are some great resources to learn more about security headers. Figuring out how to configure the security headers can be esoteric. I like these posts that are short and actionable steps to configure security headers. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are some great resources to learn more about security headers. Figuring out how to configure the security headers can be esoteric. I like these posts that are short and offer actionable steps to configure security headers. 
```

* [An Overview of Best Practices for Security Headers](/blog/2021/10/18/security-headers-best-practices)
* [OWASP's HTTP Security Response Headers Cheat Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/HTTP_Headers_Cheat_Sheet.html)
* [Web.dev's Security headers quick reference](https://web.dev/security-headers/)

## Securely transport data using TLS/SSL

> Using HTTPS should be the standard without needing to say anything, but there are legacy systems where applications don't use HTTPS. It's essential to use the _secure_ hypertext transfer protocol; after all, the HTTPS acronym is appropriately derived from **H**ypertext **T**ransfer **P**rotocol **S**ecure. And it's essential to be secure across your _entire_ stack, not just when serving the front-end site (don't ask me how I know this can be a thing). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using HTTPS should be the undisputed standard, but there are legacy systems where applications don't use HTTPS. It's essential to use the _secure_ hypertext transfer protocol; after all, the HTTPS acronym is appropriately derived from **H**ypertext **T**ransfer **P**rotocol **S**ecure. And it's essential to be secure across your _entire_ stack, not just when serving the front-end site (don't ask me how I know this can be a thing). 
```
terser

> When you don't use an up-to-date **T**ransport **L**ayer **S**ecurity within your application system, you expose yourself to [meddler-in-the-middle attacks (MITM)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Man-in-the-middle_attack). This attack is when agitators intercept communication between unsecured systems to siphon data or impersonate communicating parties. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you don't use an up-to-date **T**ransport **L**ayer **S**ecurity within your application system, you expose yourself to [meddler-in-the-middle attacks (MITM)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Man-in-the-middle_attack). In this type of attack, agitators intercept communication between unsecured systems to siphon data or impersonate communicating parties. 
```
more direct

> You might think this callout to use HTTPS is unnecessary because it's such a standard for hosting web apps, but [cryptographic failures that cause insecure communication are the second most common vulnerability in OWASP Top Ten](https://owasp.org/Top10/A02_2021-Cryptographic_Failures/)! Note that it's not enough to slap any old mechanism for HTTPS on your web server. You want a _recent_ version of TLS. Your cloud providers might even force you to upgrade if your TLS version is old, which is good!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might think this callout to use HTTPS is unnecessary because it's such a standard for hosting web apps, but [cryptographic failures that cause insecure communication are the second most common vulnerability in the OWASP Top Ten](https://owasp.org/Top10/A02_2021-Cryptographic_Failures/)! Note that it's not enough to slap any old mechanism for HTTPS on your web server. You want a _recent_ version of TLS. Your cloud providers might even force you to upgrade if your TLS version is old, which is good!
```

![Cartoon with one character saying "What does the red line through HTTPS mean?" The other character replies "Oh, just that the site hasn't been updated since 2015 or so. And since it's been around that long it means it's probably legit."](https://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/red_line_through_https.png)

-- <cite>[xkcd](https://xkcd.com/2634/)</cite>

> What's the takeaway here? Specifically, you'll want to make sure you have functioning certificates, ensure you're using the latest version of TLS, and make sure you use SSL/TLS over your _entire stack_. All of these steps might already be covered by your Cloud hosting provider. You should also verify you've added the **HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS)** security header to the web server, which adds an extra layer of security beyond HTTPS redirection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What's the takeaway here? Specifically, you'll want to make sure you have functioning certificates, ensure you're using the latest version of TLS, and make sure you use SSL/TLS over your _entire stack_. All of these steps might already be covered by your cloud hosting provider. You should also verify you've added the **HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS)** security header to the web server, which adds an extra layer of security beyond HTTPS redirection.
```
uppercase is unnecessary

It's important to note that we should update outdated components **and** ensure we don't accidentally depend on a vulnerable dependency. We should pin dependency versions in our `package.json` and then generate and enforce the use of a lock file. That means running `npm ci` instead of `npm i` to force the exact versions defined in the `package-lock.json`. If you use Yarn, you will use `yarn install --frozen-lockfile`. This way, updating versions is an intentional act.

That's it. Just do it. It's important. Outdated components are a source of _liability_.

### Dive deeper into keeping your components up to date
Check out a step-by-step guide on dependency management for JavaScript developers by the OWASP team - [NPM Security best practices](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/NPM_Security_Cheat_Sheet.html).

## Load resources securely

> A particular concern for SPAs are cross-origin resources, that is, resources your web app uses that are not hosted on the same origin as your web application. When all the resources the front-end needs are available through the same origin, we have confidence that the resources our secure. Hopefully, we're not pwning ourselves! At least not intentionally, right?!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cross-origin resources are a particular concern for SPAs. Cross-origin resources (CORS) refer to resources your web app uses that are not hosted on the same origin as your web application. When all the resources the front-end needs are available through the same origin, we have confidence that the resources are secure. Hopefully, we're not _pwning_ ourselves! At least not intentionally, right?!
```
clarifying via active voice. Typo fix.

Author: @havi will this work. I moved the definition for CORS later in this section

--- 
## Load resources securely
A particular concern for SPAs are cross-origin resources, that is, resources your web app uses that are not hosted on the same origin as your web application. When all the resources the front-end needs are available through the same origin, we have confidence that the resources are secure. Hopefully, we're not pwning ourselves! At least not intentionally, right?!

A typical pattern for setting up URLs for SPA communicating to back-end APIs might look like the following, where your front-end is

```
https://myfavekdramas.com
```

and the back-end API URL is

```
https://apis.myfavekdramas.com
```

But the API URL is a subdomain, so the request is cross-origin. Most browsers (once again BUH-BYE Internet Explorer!) protect us by allowing only specific cross-origin requests. We can configure resource access by enabling **C**ross-origin **R**esource **S**haring (CORS).

Reviewer: Hey Alisa, I'm still finding the syntax/grammar in this opening phrase awkward to read/understand  - How about you just revise that opening statement so the grammar works, and then you can use the semi-colon to pause, clarify, and continue on:  
A particular concern for SPAs are cross-origin resources --> Cross-origin resources are a particular concern for SPAs; this refers to resources that are not hosted on the same origin....

Author: Yup, that works! I'll make the change. thanks!

Reviewer: thank you

A typical pattern for setting up URLs for SPA communicating to back-end APIs might look like the following, where your front-end is

```
https://myfavekdramas.com
```

and the back-end API URL is

```
https://apis.myfavekdramas.com
```

But the API URL is a subdomain, so the request is cross-origin. Most browsers (once again BUH-BYE Internet Explorer!) protect us by allowing only specific cross-origin requests. 

> Between your production environment setup looking like the above URLs and local development having different ports for your front-end and back-end, you might be tempted to enable CORS to allow all sorts of requests. Unlike other security measures covered in this post, your browser already protects you in the strictest way possible. Enabling CORS _loosens_ that restriction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Between your production environment setup resembling the above URLs, and local development using different ports for your front-end and back-end, you might be tempted to enable CORS to allow all sorts of requests. Unlike other security measures covered in this post, your browser already protects you in the strictest way possible. Enabling CORS _loosens_ that restriction.
```

> So the advice is to enable CORS appropriately with considered use of allowlists and to use proxies as appropriate (such as for local development). The concept of least privilege applies here too, and keeping a tight lid on things helps mitigate security vulnerabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So the advice is to enable CORS appropriately with considered use of allowlists. Use proxies as appropriate (such as for local development). The concept of least privilege applies here too, and keeping a tight lid on things helps mitigate security vulnerabilities.
```
shorter sentence for greater clarity.

### Dive into cross-origin resource sharing
Want to understand better when CORS rules apply or how to set up the allowlist rules? Read these resources for a deep dive.
* [MDN CORS Reference](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS)
* [Auth0's CORS Tutorial](https://auth0.com/blog/cors-tutorial-a-guide-to-cross-origin-resource-sharing/)

## Protect your cookies from theft
Really, this advice is applicable outside of web development too. But since we're talking about web development in this post, we'll skip mitigation strategies about protecting your physical cookies from marauders and focus again on security headers.

Cookies can contain all sorts of goodies, such as chocolate chips and the tidbits of data that agitators love to have! Current authentication best practices favor using in-browser memory or web workers for authentication tokens over cookies, and cookies should never be used for secrets, but there might still be sensitive information stored in cookies. To help protect cookies, we can use attributes.

> Cookies should be temporary. Particularly cookies with sensitive information should be as short-lived as possible. When you or your back-end bakes up a cookie, adding the attribute `Max-Age` defines the longevity of the cookie. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cookies should be temporary. In particular, cookies with sensitive information should be as short-lived as possible. When you or your back-end bakes up a cookie, adding the attribute `Max-Age` defines the longevity of the cookie. 
```
using the transition phrase instead of an adverb

> There are some more attributes you can bake in! Adding the `httpOnly` attribute means the browser only sends the cookie for HTTP requests, and JavaScript won't be able to access cookies. Setting the `httpOnly` attribute is an excellent first step to guarding your cookies against a malicious script that reads your cookies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are some more attributes you can bake in! Adding the `httpOnly` attribute means the browser only sends a cookie for HTTP requests, and JavaScript won't be able to access cookies. Setting the `httpOnly` attribute is an excellent first step to guarding your cookies against a malicious script that can read your cookies.
```

> Having the `httpOnly` attribute means that JavaScript can't access the cookie, but it doesn't mean your browser carefully curates **which** cookies to send to each HTTP request! It just sends them all, resulting in a possibility of a vulnerability!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Having the `httpOnly` attribute means that JavaScript can't access the cookie, but it doesn't mean your browser carefully curates **which** cookies to send to each HTTP request! It just sends them all, resulting in the possibility of a vulnerability!
```
edit for idiomatic usage

This is where the `SameSite` attribute comes into play. You can control when cookies should be sent by using the `SameSite` attribute and setting one of 3 values:

> 1. `Strict` - only send cookies if it's going to the same site

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `Strict` - only send cookies if they are going to the same site that requested them.
```
clarity. consistent punctuation

> 2. `Lax` - only send cookies when the user is navigating to the origin site (this is the default behavior for Chromium-based browsers now)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. `Lax` - only send cookies when the user is navigating to the origin site. (This is the default behavior now for Chromium-based browsers.)
```

> 3. `None` - send the cookies to everyone, everywhere. As a safeguard for your concerningly generous behavior, you're also required to add the `Secure` attribute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. `None` - send the cookies to everyone, everywhere. As a safeguard for your generous behavior, which concerns us, you're also required to add the `Secure` attribute.
```
clarity

Author: @havi will this work?

3. `None` - send the cookies to everyone, everywhere. As a safeguard for your generous behavior, which is concerning to the browser, you're also required to add the `Secure` attribute

Reviewer: WFM! thanks :)

With the `SameSite` attribute set, you can no longer have a scenario like this
![Giphy of multiple hands holding out cookies to Cookie Monster. Cookie Monster grabs and eats them all.](https://media.giphy.com/media/xT0xeMA62E1XIlup68/giphy.gif)

Be thoughtful about cookies and apply principles of least privilege. Safeguarding cookies is a big step in mitigating other vulnerabilities.

### Dive deeper into cookie guarding

> Learn more about protecting your cookies by checking out these fantastic resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn more about protecting your cookies by checking out these fantastic resources.
```

* [web.dev's SameSite cookies explained](https://web.dev/samesite-cookies-explained/)
* [MDN's SameSite cookies web docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Set-Cookie/SameSite)

## Learn more about web security
Stay tuned for the next post in this series as we learn about two well-known web security attacks, along with mitigation techniques using what we covered here.

> Can't wait to learn more? Check out out the following resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Can't wait to learn more? Check out out the following resources.
```
sentence punctuation. it's short, but it's still a sentence.

<!-- Table with all the posts here as each post publishes -->

So why do we worry about web security anyway? When we have vulnerabilities in our applications, it's an avenue for exploitation. In the wrong hands, exploiting the vulnerabilities can cause risks to your application, data, reputation, and bottom line. In the words of my coworker [Aaron Parecki](https://developer.okta.com/blog/authors/aaron-parecki/), it all boils down to one thing—liability. And we don't want to expose ourselves, our applications, and our companies to liability if we can help it. If you feel threatened, it's a good time to read on and identify how to harden your application.

{% include toc.md %}

## Use the OWASP Top 10 to identify the most common vulnerabilities

> If you're new to thinking about security, you may not have heard of the [**O**pen **W**eb **A**pplication **S**ecurity **P**roject](https://owasp.org/) (OWASP). OWASP is a group that focuses on making the web a safer place. They maintain and publish a list of the most common web vulnerabilities named the "[OWASP Top Ten](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/)" and have a new top ten list for 2021and their infographic shows how the top web vulnerabilities changed from 2017 to 2021.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're new to thinking about security, you may not have heard of the [**O**pen **W**eb **A**pplication **S**ecurity **P**roject](https://owasp.org/) (OWASP). OWASP is a group that focuses on making the web a safer place. They maintain and publish a list of the most common web vulnerabilities named the "[OWASP Top Ten](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/)" and have a new top ten list for 2021; their infographic shows how the top web vulnerabilities have changed from 2017 to 2021.
```
space, punctuation

![OWASP Top 10 for 2021 shows the following vulnerabilities in order: Broken Access Control, Cryptographic Failures, Injection, Insecure Design, Security Misconfiguration, Vulnerable and Outdated Components, Identification and Authentication Failures, Software and Data Integrity Failures, Security Logging and Monitoring Failures, and Server-Side Request Forgery](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/assets/images/mapping.png)

> As this list is a list of web vulnerabilities, the entire list is pertinent to our work as web developers. However, a few critical vulnerabilities call for extra attention, and some vulnerabilities are less susceptible when the front-end is a SPA with a JSON-based backend API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As this is a list of web vulnerabilities, the entire list is pertinent to our work as web developers. However, a few critical vulnerabilities call for extra attention, and some vulnerabilities are less susceptible when the front-end is a SPA with a JSON-based backend API.
```
avoid the repetition.

We will cover some of these vulnerabilities specifically, but I'll also list general things to keep in mind that feed into the vulnerabilities listed here.

## Leverage your browser and security headers

> First, we need to set the stage for part of our vulnerability mitigation strategy by bringing up security headers. Modern browsers (buh-bye Internet Explorer!!) have a lot of security mechanisms already built into them. We have to leverage the built-in security mechanisms and can enhance them with additional security headers. Security headers are HTTP response headers that provide instructions on how the browser should behave and are defined on your web server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, we need to set the stage for part of our vulnerability mitigation strategy by bringing up security headers. Modern browsers (buh-bye Internet Explorer!!) have a lot of security mechanisms already built in. We have to leverage the built-in security mechanisms and can enhance them with additional security headers. Security headers are HTTP response headers that provide instructions on how the browser should behave. They are defined on your web server.
```

> There are quite a few security headers that we can apply. Something to note, SPAs are unique, so not all security headers apply in the same way you would for a traditional server-rendered web application. I'll call out the security headers that you'll want to use when we discuss how to mitigate a specific vulnerability. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are quite a few security headers that we can apply. Something to note, SPAs are unique, so not all security headers apply in the same way as they would for a traditional server-rendered web application. I'll call out the security headers that you'll want to use when we discuss how to mitigate a specific vulnerability. 
```
missing word: "in the same way you would..."
